# Chapter 2.3 - Sending Trade Offers

Now that we know how to handle incoming trade offers, sending them shouldn't
be too much more difficult. Let's add some more code to our `project2.js` so
that it sends a specific user a random item from our inventory.

How about we start off by fetching a random item. Think about how we might go
about this. First, we're going to load our inventory (which is loaded as an
array of items), then we'll choose a random number from 0 to the number of
items we have in our inventory. We'll use that number to fetch a specific item
from our inventory.

Let's start coding. First we'll create a new function.

```js
function sendRandomItem() {
	manager.loadInventory(440, 2, true, (err, inventory) => {
		if (err) {
			console.log(err);
		} else {
			const offer = manager.createOffer('partner_steam_id');
			const item = inventory[Math.floor(Math.random() * inventory.length - 1)];

			offer.addMyItem(item);
			offer.setMessage(`Lucky you! You get a ${item.name}!`);
			offer.send((err, status) => {
				if (err) {
					console.log(err);
				} else {
					console.log(`Sent offer. Status: ${status}.`);
				}
			});
		}
	});
}
```

Whoa, okay, that was quite a bit of code. Let's go through what it does. When
this function is executed, it first loads our TF2 inventory (appid `440` – if
you want to send a random CS:GO item change this to `730`), which has a
contextid of `2`. The next parameter we pass is whether we should only load
tradable items – we say `true`. We then create a new offer using `manager`'s
`.createOffer()` method. This method takes a Steam ID, so make sure you set it
to another account which you want to send an item to. Then we choose a random
item in our inventory and set it to the `item` variable. We add this item to
the offer using its `.addMyItem()` method, and we set the message using
`.setMessage()`. Then, after all that, we send the trade using `.send()`.

We just need to add a little bit more code for our bot to work. We'll need to
edit the `webSession` event listener.

```js
client.on('webSession', (sessionid, cookies) => {
	[...]

	sendRandomItem();
});
```

This is pretty simple, it just executes the function we created above. Now,
let's run the bot using `node project2.js`. Hopefully, you should see "Sent
offer. Status: sent/pending." message appear in the command line.

![console.png](./screenshots/console.png)

You should also get a trade offer containing the random item within about 10 to
30 seconds.

![trade.png](./screenshots/trade.png)

Let's add one more little feature to the bot – we should ask for one of their
items in exchange for our's. At this point in time, we won't bother checking if
it's a good deal or not, but we'll get into that later in a future chapter.

Let's change up our code from the `sendRandomItem()` function a bit. This code
will look pretty ugly, but we'll worry about making it more pretty in the
future – this is a proof-of-concept.

```js
function sendRandomItem() {
	const partner = 'partner_steam_id';
	const appid = 440;
	const contextid = 2;

	const offer = manager.createOffer(partner);

	manager.loadInventory(appid, contextid, true, (err, myInv) => {
		if (err) {
			console.log(err);
		} else {
			const myItem = myInv[Math.floor(Math.random() * myInv.length - 1)];
			offer.addMyItem(myItem);

			manager.loadUserInventory(partner, appid, contextid, true, (err, theirInv) => {
				if (err) {
					console.log(err);
				} else {
					const theirItem = theirInv[Math.floor(Math.random() * theirInv.length - 1)];
					offer.addTheirItem(theirItem);

					offer.setMessage(`Will you trade your ${theirItem.name} for my ${myItem.name}?`);
					offer.send((err, status) => {
						if (err) {
							console.log(err);
						} else {
							console.log(`Sent offer. Status: ${status}.`);
						}
					});
				}
			});
		}
	});
}
```

Alright so we changed this code up quite a bit. In short, we are now loading
their inventory as well and adding their item to the trade using the
`.addTheirItem()` method.

Try running this code now and see what happens. It should create a trade
looking something like this:

![trade2.png](./screenshots/trade2.png)

Nice. Obviously this will result in some pretty crazy trade offers, but again,
we'll get into price checking in a future chapter.

[Continue Reading](../Chapter%202.4%20-%20Accepting%20Donations)
